Add iCub Head with 4K Cameras – UKIT009 (#245)
icub-tech-iit/documentation: docs/upgrade_kits/head_4k/support.md

IC_032_G_012 | V2 eye CCD group | 16528 |   | 1
IC_032_G_013 | eye pan motor-gerabov assembly | 16529 |   | 1
IC_032_G_014 | eyes and speaker assembly | 16530 |   | 1
IC_032_G_015 | eye support main group | 16531 |   | 1
IC_032_G_016 | Neuromoprphic eye | 16532 |   | 1
IC_032_G_017 | eye pan motor-gerabov assembly | 16533 |   | 1
IC_032_G_018 | V2 eye CCD group | 16534 |   | 1
IC_032_G_019 | eyelid bushing and gear group | 16535 |   | 1
IC_032_G_020 | eye bulb assembly with helicoil | 16536 |   | 2
IC_032_G_025 | icub, RFE electronic board Support | 16537 |   | 1
IC_032_P_010 | Eyelid reinforcement | 16538 |   | 1
IC_032_P_011 | eyes pan gearbox motor base | 16539 |   | 2
IC_032_P_012 | V2 eye tilt motor gearbox | 16540 |   | 2
IC_032_P_013 | Eye CCD mounting plate | 16541 |   | 2
IC_032_P_015 | lens holder | 16542 |   | 2
IC_032_P_016 | Inner eye | 16543 |   | 2
IC_032_P_017 | External ball eye | 16544 |   | 2
IC_032_P_018 | eyelid upper | 16545 |   | 1

## Content material  WKIT_009

|  Pieces |     Alias    |    REV    |  Description       |  Cod. Wgst |
|   :---: |    :-----------:      |     :---: |   :---:   |   :---:   |
|        |       |      |             |           |

> |        |       |      |             |           |

Author: I think there is no wiring BOM required
do we want to remove the table?

> |        |       |      |             |           |

Reviewer: @maggia80 is checking this. He'll let us know.

> |        |       |      |             |           |

Reviewer: Hi @salvi-mattia 

@maggia80 is done with this!
We thus need to include https://github.com/icub-tech-iit/electronics-wiring-public/blob/master/icub-upgrade-kits/kit_009/17018_0.0.0_Harness_WKIT_009_Cameras%20updrade%20kit.pdf.

The BOM might be changed.

| 1 | 16433 | | Intel AX210, Mini PCI-e WiFi 6E, 2x2 AC + BT 5.2, M.2 2230 key E |   16433   |
| 2 | BASLER_2000036061 | | M12 Lens, Focus 2.1mm, Aperture 1.8 FOV 170 degree with IR cut filter, 1/3 | 16483 |
| 1 | 16487 | | NVIDIA JETSON XAVIER NX, 69.6mm x 45mm 260-pin SO-DIMM connector, 8 GB LPDDR4, 16GB eMMC | 16487 |
| 1 | 16488 | | NVIDIA Jetson Xavier NX Aluminum Heatsink with 36mm Fan for  with Long Cable | 16488 |
| 1 | CONNECTTECH_NGX014 | | Quark Carrier board for NVIDIA® Jetson Nano™ and Xavier NX Module, 5V input | 16518 |
| 2 | 16547 | | Camera Kit for NVIDIA Xavier NX or Jetson Nano, daA4200-30mci, M13B0618W, adapter board and 200mm flat cable |   16547   |

Draft Logic schematic

<center> ![](img/2.JPG) </center>
[download pdf](https://github.com/icub-tech-iit/electronics-wiring-public/blob/master/icub-upgrade-kits/kit_009/16519%20-%20iCub2.x%20Cameras%20upgrade%20kit%20(electronic%20parts)/16519_0.1_Logic_EKIT_009_Cameras%20upgrade%20kit.pdf)

## Assembly instruction.

**Assembly sequence** :<br>
This upgrade kit is a radical change in the head. For the assembly sequence, refer to the repository  https://github.com/icub-tech-iit/cad-mechanics-public

> ## Kinematics

Reviewer: Hi @mfussi66 

We should report which version of the software the users need to rely on here.

Reviewer: @salvi-mattia accepted all the changes.
@mfussi66 you can proceed with this point.

Reviewer 2: Done!

Due to mechanical design constraints, the kinematics of the upgraded head underwent slight changes. While the DH table is the same as the v2 (see: [Head V2 Kinematics](../../icub_kinematics/icub-forward-kinematics/icub-forward-kinematics-head.md)), the end-effector matrix changes to:

$$
\begin{equation}
T_E = 
\begin{bmatrix}
1 & 0 & 0 & 0 \\
0 & 1 & 0 & 0 \\
0 & 0 & 1 & -5.4mm \\
0 & 0 & 0 & 1 \\
\end{bmatrix}
\end{equation}
$$

## Software instructions

> This UKIT includes also an additional [NVIDIA Jetson Xavier NX](https://www.nvidia.com/en-us/autonomous-machines/embedded-systems/jetson-xavier-nx/) mounted on the top of the head, for handling the [Basler 4k cameras](https://docs.baslerweb.com/cameras) and perform on the on board gpu image processing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This UKIT includes also an additional [NVIDIA Jetson Xavier NX](https://www.nvidia.com/en-us/autonomous-machines/embedded-systems/jetson-xavier-nx/) mounted on the top of the head, for handling the [Basler 4K cameras](https://docs.baslerweb.com/cameras) and performing image processing on the onboard GPU.
```

The NVIDIA Jetson has to be configured following [the flash procedure](../../icub_operating_systems/icubos/jetpack.md).

> If the image has been [installed from scratch](../../icub_operating_systems/icubos/jetpack.md#flash-a-new-image-from-scratch) it is also needed an initial configuration that consists in:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the image has been [installed from scratch](../../icub_operating_systems/icubos/jetpack.md#flash-a-new-image-from-scratch), an initial configuration is also required, which consists in:
```

- Set the `icub` as `host` and `icub-head-cam` as `hostname`
- [Configure the network bridge and wifi](https://github.com/icub-tech-iit/setups-os-configuration/tree/master/system-files/iCubOS/ubuntu_20.04_bridge)

> For using the images provided by the new Basler camera over the YARP network it is need to compile and install [`yarp-device-pylon`](https://github.com/robotology/yarp-device-pylon#2-how-to-use-basler-pylon-cameras-as-a-yarp-device)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For using the images provided by the new Basler camera over the YARP network, it is needed to compile and install [`yarp-device-pylon`](https://github.com/robotology/yarp-device-pylon#2-how-to-use-basler-pylon-cameras-as-a-yarp-device).
```

| 1 | CONNECTTECH_CCG020 | | Carrier Board for COM-Express Type10, Connecttech CCG020 | 15301 |
| 1 | KONTRON_34099-0000-99-0_R2_1 | | COMe mini Active Uni Cooler (w/o HSP) | 15626 |
| 1 | CKG035 | | CableKit for Carrier Board COM-Express Type10, CCG020 | 15785 |
| 1 | ADVANTECH_SOM-7583C7-S8A1 | | COM-Express Type10, Advantech SOM i7-1185G7E 16GB DDR4, 64GB SSD | 16252 |
| 1 | 16433 | | Intel AX210, Mini PCI-e WiFi 6E, 2x2 AC + BT 5.2, M.2 2230 key E |   16433   |
| 2 | BASLER_2000036061 | | M12 Lens, Focus 2.1mm, Aperture 1.8 FOV 170 degree with IR cut filter, 1/3 | 16483 |
| 1 | 16487 | | NVIDIA JETSON XAVIER NX, 69.6mm x 45mm 260-pin SO-DIMM connector, 8 GB LPDDR4, 16GB eMMC | 16487 |
| 1 | 16488 | | NVIDIA Jetson Xavier NX Aluminum Heatsink with 36mm Fan for  with Long Cable | 16488 |
| 1 | CONNECTTECH_NGX014 | | Quark Carrier board for NVIDIA® Jetson Nano™ and Xavier NX Module, 5V input | 16518 |
| 2 | 16547 | | Camera Kit for NVIDIA Xavier NX or Jetson Nano, daA4200-30mci, M13B0618W, adapter board and 200mm flat cable |   16547   |

Draft Logic schematic

| 🔘 Click to download the PDF |
| :---: |

> | [!()[img/2.JPG]](https://github.com/icub-tech-iit/electronics-wiring-public/blob/master/icub-upgrade-kits/kit_009/16519%20-%20iCub2.x%20Cameras%20upgrade%20kit%20(electronic%20parts)/16519_0.1_Logic_EKIT_009_Cameras%20upgrade%20kit.pdf) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [![](img/2.JPG)](https://github.com/icub-tech-iit/electronics-wiring-public/blob/master/icub-upgrade-kits/kit_009/16519%20-%20iCub2.x%20Cameras%20upgrade%20kit%20(electronic%20parts)/16519_0.1_Logic_EKIT_009_Cameras%20upgrade%20kit.pdf) |
```

| 70    |     | 70                          |     |  0,2000 | Teflon insulated cable, 1 pole,   AWG26, 600V, yellow, UL E20042                                     |
| 7141  |     | 7141                        |     | 330,000 | Crimp terminal, FCI MiniTek,   female contact, AWG26-30                                              |
| 7142  |     | amphenol-fci_10073599-008LF |     |  10,000 | Housing, MiniTek, 8 contacts, 2   row, female, p.2mm, Straight, w to w / w to b, nolock, nokey, 2A   |
| 7143  |     | AMPHENOL-FCI_10073599-010LF |     |  20,000 | Housing, MiniTek, 10 contacts, 2   row, female, p.2mm, Straight, w to w / w to b, nolock, nokey, 2A  |
| 72    |     | 72                          |     |  0,6550 | Teflon insulated cable, 1 pole,   AWG26, 600V, red, UL E20042                                        |

| 🔘 Click to download the PDF |
| :---: |
| [![](img/4.JPG)](https://github.com/icub-tech-iit/electronics-wiring-public/blob/master/icub-upgrade-kits/kit_009/17018_0.0.0_Harness_WKIT_009_Cameras%20updrade%20kit.pdf) |

> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

\end{equation}
$$

> To use the [gaze controller](https://robotology.github.io/robotology-documentation/doc/html/group__iKinGazeCtrl.html), it is required the instantiation of `head_version` `"v2.10"`, available since the distro release [2022.11.0](../../sw_versioning_table/2022.11.0.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the [gaze controller](https://robotology.github.io/robotology-documentation/doc/html/group__iKinGazeCtrl.html), it is required the instantiation of `head_version` `"v2.10"`, available since the distro release [2022.11.0](../../sw_versioning_table/2022.11.0.md).

```
